---
layout: essay
type:essay
title:Review of the Journal of Applied Sports Management
date: 2021-03-15
labels:
-Ethics
-Honors
-Education
-Journal
---

The Applied Sport Management Association publishes a quarterly, peer-reviewed journal that includes the newest research and topics of interest in the field of applied sport management. The Journal of Applied Sport Management (JASM) and the Applied Sports Management Association (ASMA) have similar titles and missions, to add worth and value to literature in the sports industry field through conceptual research with empirical results. Shown in their approach in a “Call for papers”, back in 2013, they ask authors to submit articles that address “the latest research in all aspects of applied sport management…” (Walker, 2020). Exploration of JASM’s website found that the current editorial team, headed by the main editor Matthew B. Walker and assisted by two associate editors, demonstrates a continuous effort to promote and uphold their policies and academic standards. This online journal page has a lot to offer for the future of the sport management field.
	Overall, this journal presents a substantial benefit to understanding and researching the complexities of modern sports management. JASM is the official publisher of the Applied Sport Management Association. ASMA is an award-winning association that aims to “build strong connections between scholars studying sport and practitioners working in the sports industry” (Dr. Marshall Magnusen, n.d.). This close partnership between ASMA and JASM gives higher credibility to the journal and will bring more viewers to the journal. Current editor Dr. Marshal Magnusen is also the current President of the ASMA. But even with Magnusen doing two jobs, scholars from universities in the United States and various other countries, contribute to the review process as well as submission of scholarly articles. This acceptance of diverse and international viewpoints into their staff gives them more insight when reviewing and accepting submissions from foreign scholars as well as a wider view of international topics. The journal shows it takes an ethical mindset to assist foreign authors and understand their standards to approach issues and research in this field. JASM helps authors in other ways, like with the process of writing an article for the journal. They lay out their policies for their editors and how a submission should achieve one of their two goals,” theoretical manuscripts could be presented as a … precursor to a fully developed manuscript … experimental or empirical manuscript should offer robust thorough, and complete results…” (Walker, 2020). They also offer clear and concise guidelines for submission. For instance, their “Prose Guide for Authors” which provides a format to follow for the journal. These guidelines are beneficial to the authors and can improve their quality of submissions and coherence to the central mission statement. Another way the journal assists authors and reviewers is by having a descriptive diagram for their peer-review process. This gives authors and reviewers a guide to understand how their publishing and review systems work. These various factors give authors clarity when writing a scholarly piece for this journal which translates into higher quality submissions. When authors clearly understand the format for this piece and the guiding objectives of the JASM, both author’s submissions and the journal can be improved. Overall, JASM’s articles and website are organized with a direct and clear-cut format but, it is outdated. The journal’s interface needs to be updated and modernized, which would then make it more efficient and appealing for readers and in turn increase viewership. 
Works Cited
Dr. Marshall Magnusen. (n.d.). Applied Sport Management Association. Retrieved from applied sport management: https://appliedsportmanagement.org/history-of-asma/
Walker, D. M. (2020). Journal of Applied Sport Management. Retrieved from js.sagamorepub: https://js.sagamorepub.com/jasm

