---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Arguements of Interests in Academic Publishing, Ethical Issues in Publication
date: 2021-03-26
labels:
-Ethics
-Honors
-Education
---

	Throughout history, we have learned more and advanced our knowledge by sharing ideas and research. Academic publishing has made important resources accessible to many scholars, who today still rely on academic journals of many kinds to provide, intelligent and focused information. But, since academic publishing has become so important and widespread, various ethical issues have arisen that need to be addressed and fixed. Conflicts of interest are now one of the more prominent ethical issues found in academic publishing. COI’s, also known as competing interests, “can occur when you (or your employer or sponsor) have a financial, commercial, legal, or professional relationship with other organizations, or with the people working with them, that could influence research” (Francis, 2020). Everyone in the publication process can be a victim or a catalyst for competing interests. Individuals that face conflicts of interest include authors, editors, journal staff, publishers, peer reviewers, and readers who rely on truthful information that is free from possible outside influences. 
According to “A Framework for Ethical Decisions Making” (Velasquez, et al., 2015) created by the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics, there are five ethical approaches to identify moral standards and solve social issues. Conflicts of interest in publishing fall into two of the five categories set by the framework authors. The “Common Good Approach” goes back to ancient Greek philosophers that believed life was generally good and depended on peoples’ actions to be that way. COIs in publishing arise from influences such as financial need, corporate demands, strong competition, and intellectual passion. These influences can negatively affect the truthful, objective and honest selection and editing of journal publication. The Potential damage to the common good from biased journal publication is easy to understand but often difficult to recognize. Issues like these are important to discuss and prevent from happening because they often result in serious harm, including risk of reputation, termination from a job, hefty fines, and even legal action. A COI can cause unethical treatment, unequal opportunity and unfairly limit people and ideas. Bias and unequal treatment in these situations also violate the “Fairness and Justice Approach”. 
Recognizing the harm that can be caused by an ethical issue is the first step to consider possible solutions. Research on competing interests has been conducted for decades. We already know a lot about conflicts of interest and the influences they have on academic publishing. To combat situations, conflict of interest disclosure forms was created by the ICJME (ICJME, 2021) to increase transparency in the publication process. Authors are requested by the journals to submit a list of possible competing interests. However, journals and publishers rarely hold themselves accountable like the authors. One such example of a potential conflict of interest can be seen in The Journal of Applied Sport Management (JASM) (Walker, 2020). This journal is closely related to and works with the Association of Applied Sport Management (ASMA) (Dr. Marshall Magnusen, n.d.). This tight bond could influence all aspects of publishing. Because of shared objectives, they have crossed an ethical borderline since the current president of the ASMA, Dr. Magnusen, is also one of the main editors of the JASM. This dual role ship can cause readers to think that the journals are heavily influenced by the company which in turn creates distrust between authors or readers and the journal. 
Distrust caused by a conflict of interest can be compounded by financial influences such as sponsorships, advertisements, and companies that fund research and or the journal can create biases with their publication choices. This financial aspect can also reach the authors as well. Authors are often paid for their research by sponsors, grants, or even incentives from the journal. Publishers may be more inclined to publish and support an article that would benefit their revenue versus the academic value of the content or perspective. These monetary variables can diminish the credibility and reputations of published works, their authors, and their publishers when motivated by financials instead of genuine academic integrity. Financial conflicts of interest in academic publishing can end up with serious ethical problems that are difficult to identify and to correct once they are established.
A conflict of interest can present detrimental and harmful outcomes to almost every part of the academic publishing field. Everyone involved in the process of publication can be affected by a conflict of interest. Readers can be misled and realize that ‘the author or journal is just trying to advance their business and make revenue from this so how good can the research be?’, this can harm the reputation of the author and or publisher. A reviewer may have a conflict of interest if they were writing a similar article at that time. This also creates a situation that can harm the author's chance of acceptance. Journal staff can feel under pressure to please the journal, causing their works to reflect the journal's beliefs and motives instead of being fair and objective in their reviews and edits. Authors usually need funding for their research, especially in the scientific fields. This need for sponsors can give those sponsors possible control of the research done so it can improve their business and increase their revenue. Journals and Publishers usually rely on sponsors and advertisements for their revenue, and just like authors, they can be influenced by the needs and demands of said sponsors and advertisements. These possible corporate demands create a disparity between how trusted the journal or author would be to the readers and reviewers’ perspectives. All of these potential conflicts show how competing interests harm journals, authors and readers alike.
	One common corrective action for these possible conflicts of interest is full disclosure and transparency throughout the publication process. Journals often require ask authors to create a list of potential conflicts of interest. But, if this is required by authors, should the journal and publisher follow the same standards? To effectively guard against potential conflict of interests, full disclosure should be req8uired equally from all parties involved before any of the publication process starts. This way everyone is treated equally, and results are not influenced by bias or incentives. The “Common Good” and “Fairness and Justice” approaches both help to identify and solve this ethical issue. Conflicts of interest create biased and unjust mindsets for individuals in the academic publishing process and influence them to think without public fairness and common good in mind. 
A conflict of interest is an ethical issue where competing interests tend to lean towards behaviors and actions that influence and interfere with the fair and honest process of publication. This ethics ethical problem creates unfair conditions for authors, publishers, journals, and their staff to avoid. Conflict of interests will never fully go away, but they can be reduced by transparent disclosure.
 
Works Cited
Dr. Marshall Magnusen. (n.d.). Applied Sport Management Association. Retrieved from applied sport management: https://appliedsportmanagement.org/history-of-asma/
Francis, T. &. (2020, December 08). Retrieved from Author Services: https://authorservices.taylorandfrancis.com/editorial-policies/competing-interest/#
ICJME. (2021, February). Disclosure of Interest Form. Retrieved from ICJME: http://www.icmje.org/disclosure-of-interest/
Velasquez, M., Moberg, D., Meyer, M. J., Shanks, T., McLean , M. R., Decosse, D., . . . Hanson, K. O. (2015, August 1). SCU.edu. Retrieved from Markkula Center for Applied Ethics: https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/ethical-decision-making/a-framework-for-ethical-decision-making/
Walker, D. M. (2020). Journal of Applied Sport Management. Retrieved from js.sagamorepub: https://js.sagamorepub.com/jasm

